¦Ifinal_url¡DtypeLhttp_headers¢DtypeEvalue‡¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueNContent-LengthAv¢DtypeEvalueD8226¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueMAccept-RangesAv¢DtypeEvalueEbytes¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueFServerAv¢DtypeEvalueX4Apache/2.4.6 (CentOS) OpenSSL/1.0.2k-fips SVN/1.7.14¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueMLast-ModifiedAv¢DtypeEvalueXTue, 17 Jan 1995 08:26:52 GMT¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueDETagAv¢DtypeEvalueT"2022-2cecd53256b00"¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueDDateAv¢DtypeEvalueXFri, 01 Feb 2019 15:26:18 GMT¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueLContent-TypeAv¢DtypeEvalueXtext/html; charset=UTF-8Kraw_content¢DtypeEvalueY "<title>As We may Think - Section 5</title>
<b>Next:</b> <a href="section6.html">Section 6</a>,
<b>Previous:</b> <a href="section4.html">Section 4</a>,
<b>Up:</b> <a href="index.html">As We May Think</a>
<h1>Section 5</h1>
<address>Vannevar Bush - <a href="index.html">As We May
Think</a> - The Atlantic Monthly, July 1945</address>
<hr>

The scientist, however, is not the only person who manipulates data
and examines the world about him by the use of logical processes,
although he sometimes preserves this appearance by adopting into the
fold anyone who becomes logical, much in the manner in which a British
labor leader is elevated to knighthood.  Whenever logical processes of
thought are employed - that is, whenever thought for a time runs along
an accepted groove - there is an opportunity for the machine.  Formal
logic used to be a keen instrument in the hands of the teacher in his
trying of students' souls.  It is readily possible to construct a
machine which will manipulate premises in accordance with formal
logic, simply by the clever use of relay circuits.  Put a set of
premises into such a device and turn the crank, and it will readily
pass out conclusion after conclusion, all in accordance with logical
law, and with no more slips than would be expected of a keyboard
adding machine.

<p>

Logic can become enormously difficult, and it would undoubtedly be
well to produce more assurance in its use.  The machines for higher
analysis have usually been equation solvers.  Ideas are beginning to
appear for equation transformers, which will rearrange the
relationship expressed by an equation in accordance with strict and
rather advanced logic.  Progress is inhibited by the exceedingly crude
way in which mathematicians express their relationships.  They employ
a symbolism which grew like Topsy and has little consistency; a
strange fact in that most logical field.

<p>

A new symbolism, probably positional, must apparently precede the
reduction of mathematical transformations to machine processes.  Then,
on beyond the strict logic of the mathematician, lies the application
of logic in everyday affairs.  We may some day click off arguments on
a machine with the same assurance that we now enter sales on a cash
register.  But the machine of logic will not look like a cash
register, even a streamlined model.

<p>

So much for the manipulation of ideas and their insertion into the
record.  Thus far we seem to be worse off than before - for we can
enormously extend the record; yet even in its present bulk we can
hardly consult it.  This is a much larger matter than merely the
extraction of data for the purposes of scientific research; it
involves the entire process by which man profits by his inheritance of
acquired knowledge.  The prime action of use is selection, and here we
are halting indeed.  There may be millions of fine thoughts, and the
account of the experience on which they are based, all encased within
stone walls of acceptable architectural form; but if the scholar can
get at only one a week by diligent search, his syntheses are not
likely to keep up with the current scene.

<p>

Selection, in this broad sense, is a stone <a
href="http://c.gp.cs.cmu.edu:5103/prog/webster?adz">adze</a> in the
hands of a cabinetmaker.  Yet, in a narrow sense and in other areas,
something has already been done mechanically on selection.  The
personnel officer of a factory drops a stack of a few thousand
employee cards into a selecting machine, sets a code in accordance
with an established convention, and produces in a short time a list of
all employees who live in Trenton and know Spanish.  Even such devices
are much too slow when it comes, for example, to matching a set of
fingerprints with one of five millions on file.  Selection devices of
this sort will soon be speeded up from their present rate of reviewing
data at a few hundred a minute.  By the use of photocells and
microfilm they will survey items at the rate of thousands a second,
and will print out duplicates of those selected.

<p>

This process, however, is simple selection: it proceeds by examining
in turn every one of a large set of items, and by picking out those
which have certain specified characteristics.  There is another form
of selection best illustrated by the automatic telephone exchange.
You dial a number and the machine selects and connects just one of a
million possible stations.  It does not run over them all.  It pays
attention only to a class given by a first digit, and so on; and thus
proceeds rapidly and almost unerringly to the selected station.  It
requires a few seconds to make the selection, although the process
could be speeded up if increased speed were economically warranted.
If necessary, it could be made extremely fast by substituting
thermionic-tube switching for mechanical switching, so that the full
selection could be made in one-hundredth of a second.  No one would
wish to spend the money necessary to make this change in the telephone
system, but the general idea is applicable elsewhere.

<p>

Take the prosaic problem of the great department store.  Every time a
charge sale is made, there are a number of things to be done.. The
inventory needs to be revised, the salesman needs to be given credit
for the sale, the general accounts need an entry, and, most important,
the customer needs to be charged.  A central records device has been
developed in which much of this work is done conveniently.  The
salesman places on a stand the customer's identification card, his own
card, and the card taken from the article sold - all punched cards.
When he pulls a lever, contacts are made through the holes, machinery
at a central point makes the necessary computations and entries, and
the proper receipt is printed for the salesman to pass to the
customer.

<p>

But there may be ten thousand charge customers doing business with the
store, and before the full operation can be completed someone has to
select the right card and insert it at the central office.  Now rapid
selection can slide just the proper card into position in an instant
or two, and return it afterward.  Another difficulty occurs, however.
Someone must read a total on the card, so that the machine can add its
computed item to it.  Conceivably the cards might be of the dry
photography type I have described.  Existing totals could then be read
by photocell, and the new total entered by an electron beam.

<p>

The cards may be in miniature, so that they occupy little space.  They
must move quickly.  They need not be transferred far, but merely into
position so that the photocell and recorder can operate on them.
Positional dots can enter the data.  At the end of the month a machine
can readily be made to read these and to print an ordinary bill.  With
tube selection, in which no mechanical parts are involved in the
switches, little time need be occupied in bringing the correct card
into use - a second should suffice for the entire operation.  The
whole record on the card may be made by magnetic dots on a steel sheet
if desired, instead of dots to be observed optically, following the
scheme by which Poulsen long ago put speech on a magnetic wire.  This
method has the advantage of simplicity and ease of erasure.  By using
photography, however, one can arrange to project the record in
enlarged form, and at a distance by using the process common in
television equipment.

<p>

One can consider rapid selection of this form, and distant projection
for other purposes.  To be able to key one sheet of a million before
an operator in a second or two, with the possibility of then adding
notes thereto, is suggestive in many ways.  It might even be of use in
libraries, but that is another story.  At any rate, there are now some
interesting combinations possible.  One might, for example, speak to a
microphone, in the manner described in connection with the
speech-controlled typewriter, and thus make his selections.  It would
certainly beat the usual file clerk.

<hr>
<b>Next:</b> <a href="section6.html">Section 6</a>,
<b>Previous:</b> <a href="section4.html">Section 4</a>,
<b>Up:</b> <a href="index.html">As We May Think</a>
<address>dduchier@csi.uottawa.ca</address>
Mis_redirected¢DtypeEvalueôIhttp_code¢DtypeEvalueÈQdownload_complete¢DtypeEvalueõ