¦Ifinal_url¡DtypeLhttp_headers¢DtypeEvalue‡¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueNContent-LengthAv¢DtypeEvalueD6047¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueMAccept-RangesAv¢DtypeEvalueEbytes¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueFServerAv¢DtypeEvalueX4Apache/2.4.6 (CentOS) OpenSSL/1.0.2k-fips SVN/1.7.14¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueMLast-ModifiedAv¢DtypeEvalueXTue, 17 Jan 1995 08:26:52 GMT¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueDETagAv¢DtypeEvalueT"179f-2cecd53256b00"¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueDDateAv¢DtypeEvalueXFri, 01 Feb 2019 14:29:52 GMT¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueLContent-TypeAv¢DtypeEvalueXtext/html; charset=UTF-8Kraw_content¢DtypeEvalueYŸ<title>As We may Think - Section 1</title>
<b>Next:</b> <a href="section2.html">Section 2</a>,
<b>Previous:</b> <a href="intro.html">Introduction</a>,
<b>Up:</b> <a href="index.html">As We May Think</a>
<h1>Section 1</h1>
<address>Vannevar Bush - <a href="index.html">As We May
Think</a> - The Atlantic Monthly, July 1945</address>
<hr>

Of what lasting benefit has been man's use of science and of the new
instruments which his research brought into existence?  First, they
have increased his control of his material environment.  They have
improved his food, his clothing, his shelter; they have increased his
security and released him partly from the bondage of bare existence.
They have given him increased knowledge of his own biological
processes so that he has had a progressive freedom from disease and an
increased span of life.  They are illuminating the interactions of his
physiological and psychological functions, giving the promise of an
improved mental health.

<p>

Science has provided the swiftest communication between individuals;
it has provided a record of ideas and has enabled man to manipulate
and to make extracts from that record so that knowledge evolves and
endures throughout the life of a race rather than that of an
individual.

<p>

There is a growing mountain of research.  But there is increased
evidence that we are being bogged down today as specialization
extends.  The investigator is staggered by the findings and
conclusions of thousands of other workers - conclusions which he
cannot find time to grasp, much less to remember, as they appear.  Yet
specialization becomes increasingly necessary for progress, and the
effort to bridge between disciplines is correspondingly superficial.

<p>

Professionally our methods of transmitting and reviewing the results
of research are generations old and by now are totally inadequate for
their purpose.  If the aggregate time spent in writing scholarly works
and in reading them could be evaluated, the ratio between these
amounts of time might well be startling.  Those who conscientiously
attempt to keep abreast of current thought, even in restricted fields,
by close and continuous reading might well shy away from an
examination calculated to show how much of the previous month's
efforts could be produced on call.  Mendel's concept of the laws of
genetics was lost to the world for a generation because his
publication did not reach the few who were capable of grasping and
extending it; and this sort of catastrophe is undoubtedly being
repeated all about us, as truly significant attainments become lost in
the mass of the inconsequential.

<p>

The difficulty seems to be, not so much that we publish unduly in view
of the extent and variety of present-day interests, but rather that
publication has been extended far beyond our present ability to make
real use of the record.  The summation of human experience us being
expanded at a prodigious rate, and the means we use for threading
through the consequent maze to the momentarily important item is the
same as was used in the days of square-rigged ships.

<p>

But there are signs of a change as new and powerful instrumentalities
come into use.  Photocells capable of seeing things in a physical
sense, advanced photography which can record what is seen or even what
is not, thermionic tubes capable of controlling potent forces under
the guidance of less power than a mosquito uses to vibrate his wings,
cathode ray tubes rendering visible an occurrence so brief that by
comparison a microsecond is a long time, relay combinations which will
carry out involved sequences of movements more reliably than any human
operator and thousand of times as fast - there are plenty of
mechanical aids with which to effect a transformation in scientific
records.

<p>

Two centuries ago Leibnitz invented a calculating machine which
embodied most of the essential features of recent keyboard devices,
but it could not then come into use.  The economics of the situation
were against it: the labor involved in constructing it, before the
days of mass production, exceeded the labor to be saved by its use,
since all it could accomplish could be duplicated by sufficient use of
pencil and paper.  Moreover, it would have been subject to frequent
breakdown, so that it could not have been depended upon; for at that
time and long after, complexity and unreliability were synonymous.

<p>

Babbage, even with remarkably generous support for his time, could not
produce his great arithmetical machine.  His idea was sound enough,
but construction and maintenance costs were then too heavy.  Had a
Pharaoh been given detailed and explicit designs of an automobile, and
had he understood them completely, it would have taxed the resources
of his kingdom to have fashioned the thousands of parts for a single
car, and that car would have broken down on the first trip to Giza.

<p>

Machines with interchangeable parts can now be constructed with great
economy of effort.  In spite of much complexity, they perform reliably.
Witness the humble typewriter, or the movie camera, or the automobile.
Electrical contacts have ceased to stick when thoroughly understood.
Note the automatic telephone exchange, which has hundred of thousands
of such contacts, and yet is reliable.  A spider web of metal, sealed
in a thin glass container, a wire heated to brilliant glow, in short,
the thermionic tube of radio sets, is made by the hundred million,
tossed about in packages, plugged into sockets - and it works!  Its
gossamer parts, the precise location and alignment involved in its
construction, would have occupied a master craftsman of the guild for
months; now it is built for thirty cents.  The world has arrived at an
age of cheap complex devices of great reliability; and something is
bound to come of it.

<hr>
<b>Next:</b> <a href="section2.html">Section 2</a>,
<b>Previous:</b> <a href="intro.html">Introduction</a>,
<b>Up:</b> <a href="index.html">As We May Think</a>
<address>dduchier@csi.uottawa.ca</address>
Mis_redirected¢DtypeEvalueôIhttp_code¢DtypeEvalueÈQdownload_complete¢DtypeEvalueõ