¦Ifinal_url¡DtypeLhttp_headers¢DtypeEvalue‡¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueNContent-LengthAv¢DtypeEvalueE15625¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueMAccept-RangesAv¢DtypeEvalueEbytes¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueFServerAv¢DtypeEvalueX4Apache/2.4.6 (CentOS) OpenSSL/1.0.2k-fips SVN/1.7.14¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueMLast-ModifiedAv¢DtypeEvalueXSat, 18 Mar 1995 06:33:28 GMT¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueDETagAv¢DtypeEvalueT"3d09-2d382bc131e00"¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueDDateAv¢DtypeEvalueXFri, 01 Feb 2019 17:13:57 GMT¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueLContent-TypeAv¢DtypeEvalueXtext/html; charset=UTF-8Kraw_content¢DtypeEvalueY=	
<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3O//DTD W3 HTML 2.0//EN">

<!DOCTYPE---HW4 Chris Yellen 95527725 ics1c-->

<html>
<!-- base href="file://localhost/u3/ea/eafg026/www/HW4-ChrisYellen.html" -->
<head><title>Zen And The Art On The Internet</title></head>
<hr>
<P>
<IMG SRC="http://ea.oac.uci.edu/indiv/eafg026/images/Title.gif"><hr>
<P>
<I>An Essay By</I><B><I> Chris Yellen</I></B>
<P>
University Of California Irvine
<P>
<ADDRESS>eafg026@ea.oac.uci.edu</ADDRESS>
<body>
<HR><IMG SRC="http://ea.oac.uci.edu/indiv/eafg026/images/Girltv.gif">
<H2>The Future, The Past And The Present</H2><hr>
<P>


Strolling down the halls of a museum one can hear the echoes of a
culture shouting their existence in the form of paint, metal, plaster,
glass and silicon.  Silicon? Yes folks it was bound to happen sooner
than later.  Today man has decided to store his a==

rt not on canvas but disk.  Welcome to the future of art in the 21st
century.  Looking ahead we have seen our

<A HREF="http://www.yahoo.com/Entertainment/Magazines/">magazines</A>,
<A HREF="gopher://wiretap.spies.com/11/Books">books</A>,

<A HREF="http://www.iuma.com/">music</A> and <A
HREF="http://ea.oac.uci.edu/indiv/eafg026/images/o.j.stamp3.gif">pictures</A>
that define the human existence go digital.  In fact almost every media
imaginable has now gone the ways of the cyber-community.  Gone are our
the

conventions that would limit our access to art,

<A HREF="http://www.yahoo.com/Science/">science</A> and

<A HREF="http://www.yahoo.com/Government/">government</A>.  People
worldwide now gather across phone lines and push buttons that inject
the new messia

h.  A digital homage to a Mecca that is continually growing upward to
an infinite sky.  This new genre has entered our society with a
vehemence of unwreakening strength.  Man in the last four years has
invented another Atomic Bomb, and it's buttons lie wi

th in Browsers such as

<A HREF="http://www.ncsa.uiuc.edu">Mosaic</A> and

<A HREF="http://home.mcom.com">Netscape</A>.  This time we are
<U>all</U> under attack.

<P>

Art has been the one true universal element in all human societies.
With the

<A HREF="http://www.memst.edu/egypt/main.html">Egyptians</A> it was a
way of recording events and honoring the memories of the dead.  With
the Greeks and

<A HREF="http://www.ncsa.uiuc.edu/SDG/Experimenta">Romans</A> art became a decorative element
that enhanced daily life.  In

<A
HREF="http://www.twi.tudelft.nl/Local/Shona/Sculpture.html">Africa</A>
as in many tribal communities art was a way to worship gods and
deities.  In fac==

t since the dawn of man, art expressed mans creative desire and
depiction for beauty and tranquillity.  Much is the same with our
modern society as it was millions of years ago.  The difference now
being the format not the purpose.

<P>

With the advent of the

<A HREF="http://www.ics.uci.edu/~ics1c/doc/www_faq.html">World Wide
Web</A>, art is expressed though in-line images of a

<A HREF="http://www.ziff.com/~pcmag/1403/03webin">Browser</A>, stored
in universal compression formats such as

<A HREF="http://www.cis.ohio-state.edu/hypertext/faq/us">GIF, JPEG and
MPEG</A>.  It is here that a new definition is being mapped out for art
and its role in a computer based society.  In this new art world
everyone who has access can be seen while new i

deas are inputted and updated constantly.

I first became aware of this new cyberbased art world one year ago when
I ran across the

<A HREF="http://sunsite.unc.edu/pub/multimedia/pictures/OTIS/" >Otis
Project</a> on the Web.  It was here that the interactive nature of
computing was being retrofitt

ed into an art context.  I quickly took the opportunity to take some
scanned photos and paintings I had worked on, and then uploaded them to
the site.  It was through my newly acquired audience reactions that I
developed an interest in the potential of

<A

HREF="http://www.monash.edu.au/diva/images.html">digital</A> art.  It
was then that I dove into the ideas surrounding

<A HREF="http://www.art.net:80/">art on the net</A>.  Quickly, I
discovered that I was now an information provider.  This newly acquired

title forced me to think of the social responsibility as well as the
implications that the new technology has upon society.  In this new age
everyone involved is an artist and critic.  The range of images and
information is unfathomable.  Navigating to w==

eb site museums had become a long time consuming quest for art.
Luckily for artists

<A HREF="http://www.nas.nasa.gov/HPCC/K12/EDRC29.html">search
engines</A> cut most of the time required to find art based Web sites.

<A HREF="http://akebono.stanford.edu/yahoo/Art">Yahoo</a> is a good starting location for hunting down Web
Galleries.  It's here that one can find a listing of many

<A
HREF="http://http.ecn.bgu.edu/users/mfjfg/gallery.html">commercial</A>

<A HREF="http://cwis.usc.edu/dept/annenberg/artgals2.html">galleries</A> as well as

<A HREF="http://http.ecn.bgu.edu/users/mfjfg/nonprofit">non-profit</A>
galleries.  Most

<A
HREF="http://orathost.cfa.ilstu.edu/public/cfaInfo/univG">Universities</A>
have now joined the Web bringing student work (that might

be limited to a particular campus) on-line.

<P>

Still, if this new technology was to have any implications in
revolutionizing the existing art world, it would need to reference it.
The

<A HREF="http://www.si.edu/">Smithsonian Institute</A> site is one that
exemplifies how an old establishment is willin g to modernize.  If one
was interested in viewing art of the

<A HREF="http://www.emf.net/louvre/paint/theme/im">impressionists</A>
or the

<A HREF="http://www.emf.net/louvre/paint/">Great Masters</A> a trip to
the Luovre no longer requires getting on a pla==

ne to Europe.

<P>

Unfortunately the Web has its limitations.  It can never replace the
original work nor can it represent the environment on feels when in a
gallery or museum.  What the Web lacks it makes up for with
convenience.  In most cases a gallery visitor might not

have time or money to venture to visit a friends show.  With a Web
gallery one can still visit and see their friends work in this case
lets say

<A
HREF="http://orathost.cfa.ilstu.edu/public/oratGallery/artsExhibits/bowenExhibit3/home.html">Greg
Bowen</A>

from the

<A
HREF="http://orathost.cfa.ilstu.edu/public/cfaInfo/univGallery/Galleries.html">Illinois
State University</A>.  By clicking the hypertext document I just saved
myself a trip across the country to view pictures of his girlfriends
navel piercing.



<P>

The real test of this computer based renaissance will be in research.
This field offers archeologists as well as art historians to a myriad
of files and images stored on the net.  Commercial implications aside.
This type of research might replace the th

ousands of journals in the libraries across the world.  For example. A
subject calls for a study on

<A HREF="http://www.memphis.edu/egypt/artifact.html">Egyptian art</A>
during the Middle Kingdom period. One only needs to access a site in
Memphis. In fact

the longer one pursues the subject art and artifacts from around the

<A HREF="http://sgwww.epfl.ch/BERGER/">world</A> can be found and
brought into the home via the WWW.

Art enters our computer driven society though other sources besides the
WWW.  In the form of

<A HREF="http://www.primenet.com/~laig/cdrom.html">CD-ROM</A>,
hundreds of images can be placed on Compact Disk.  This type of
packaging unfortunately requires a

certain type of platform in order to run, are not as interactive as the
WWW (also they can be <U>very</U> expensive).  I have found that the
WWW is the only viable solution to the computer driven art community.
Low costs and a never ending data bank of

information will propel the 21st century artist into the future.
Unfortunately the ride will not be smooth.

<P>

Until recently the images found on the internet went unchallenged.  Art
no matter what its content could be distributed world wide.  In some
essence it was the last place an artist could express his/her ideas
with out censorship imposed upon their work.

Now, as in most anarchy's, the art and images found on the net are
being challenged by government on its content.  The issues of

<A HREF="http://www.york.ac.uk/~jjrk1/porno.html">pornography vs.
artistic vision</A> will again be brought into the political

areana, as the numbers of WWW traffic increases.  A nude study such as

<A HREF="http://www.atom.co.jp/GALLERY/PICTURE/Osawa">Hisayoshi
Osawa's</A> might be compared to images found on

<A HREF="http://www.playboy.com/">Playboy Internet</A>.  I believe if

restrictions are placed upon art, it cannot exist in its true virtue.
It is a difficult issue to approach and has no real solution except to
educated the viewers in the differences in the meanings.  Judging from
experience Art has always challenged censo==

r ideals and has prevailed, even in a conservative society.

<P>

What the future holds in the art world is still being shaped.  It is
quite possible that this technology is a trend and it will pass with
the new and improved technology.  I feel some of the concepts mentioned
above are to stay.  Twenty years ago a digita==

l media based society was unimaginable to the public, today it is
inconceivable to live without it.  From our televisions to our laptops,
we rely on the information we obtain.  Art is connected to this
information society, from it we get the pictures and

the sounds that shape cultures.  Today the world is united in this new
kingdom of silicon.  It is here that art can truly progress into a
wonderful arena of ideas that can be viewed by all.

The WWW is the key that, for now, unlocks the doors to the world's
family album.  Sven Wechsler a student from the University of Colorado
commented on the value of art on the Internet. He jests "The Louvre
isn't exactly across the street."  Today it is.


<P>
<hr><p>
<B><U><H3>References:</H3></U></B><!DOCTYPEHotlist-file-1>   
    <A HREF="http://www.egallery.com/egallery/">The Electric Gallery</A>
    <A HREF="http://sfgate.com/gallery/">The Gate Gallery</A>
    <A HREF="http://www.si.edu/" >Smithsonian</A>
    <A HREF="http://www.ncb.gov.sg/wired/WoWWW.html" >Wired Magazine</A>

    <A HREF="http://www.playboy.com/">The Playboy Home Page</A>
    <A HREF="http://www.atom.co.jp/GALLERY/PICTURE/Osawa/index.html">Hisayoshi Osawa #1</A>
   <A HREF="http://akebono.stanford.edu/yahoo/">Yahoo</A>
    <A HREF="http://nyweb.com/expo/">EXPO AT NYC WEB</A>
    <A HREF="http://cwis.usc.edu/dept/annenberg/artfinal.html">Not Waiting for the Information Highway: Art Galleries on the World Wide Web</A>
    <A HREF="http://wimsey.com/anima/NEXUS/makingArt.html">MAKING ART ONLINE</A>
    <A HREF="http://www.mojones.com/motherjones.html">Mother Jones</A>
    <A HREF="http://www.atom.co.jp/">atom Co.,Ltd. home page</A>
    <A HREF="http://www.wired.com/Staff/justin/dox/sex.html">Sex</A>
    <A HREF="http://golgi.harvard.edu/biopages/all.html">The World-Wide Web Virtual Library: Biosciences</A>
    <A HREF="http://www.mgainc.com/Art/jsd/vargas/av_list.html">The Artwork of Alberto Vargas on Access Art</A>
    <A HREF="http://www.iuma.com/">Internet Underground Music Archive</A>
    <A HREF="http://www.einet.net/">EINet Galaxy</A>
    <A HREF="http://lycos.cs.cmu.edu/">The Lycos Home Page: Hunting WWW Information</A>
    <A HREF="http://www.ics.uci.edu/~ics1c/doc/www_faq.html">World Wide Web FAQ</A>
    <A HREF="http://www.yahoo.com/Entertainment/Magazines/">Entertainment:Magazines</A>
    <A HREF="http://www.yahoo.com/Entertainment/Music/">Entertainment:Music</A>
   <A HREF="http://webcrawler.cs.washington.edu/WebCrawler/WebQuery.html">WebCrawler Searching</A>
    <A HREF="http://www.cs.indiana.edu/aliweb/form.html" ADD_DATE="-1419249758" ALIWEB Search Form</A>
    <A HREF="http://www.online.edu/index.htm">OnLine Education Home Page</A>
    <A HREF="gopher://wiretap.spies.com/11/Books">Books</A>
    <A HREF="http://www.pitt.edu/~ian/ianres.html">The World-Wide Web Virtual Library: Research Resources</A>
    <A HREF="http://www.nas.nasa.gov/HPCC/K12/EDRC29.html">Search Pages and Resource Discovery Engines</A>
    <A HREF="http://heiwww.unige.ch/art >Art Gallery - Home</A>
    <A HREF="http://www.ics.uci.edu/~ics1c/doc/websearch.html">Searching the Web</A>
    <A HREF="http://www.uky.edu/Artsource/artsourcehome.html">ArtSource</A>
   <A HREF="http://agent2.lycos.cs.cmu.edu/cgi-bin/pursuit?galleries.">Lycos search: galleries.</A>
    <A HREF="http://orathost.cfa.ilstu.edu/public/cfaInfo/univGallery/Galleries.html" >University Galleries</A>
    <A HREF="http://www.uampfa.berkeley.edu/">University Art Museum / Pacific Film Archive</A>
    <A HREF="http://cwis.usc.edu/dept/annenberg/artgals2.html">List of Art Galleries</A>
   <A HREF="http://www.mgainc.com/Art/By_Artist.html">Access Art, Artists On Line</A>
    <A HREF="http://www.egallery.com/egallery/homepage.html">The Electric Gallery</A>
    <A HREF="http://orathost.cfa.ilstu.edu/public/cfaInfo/univGallery/Galleries.html">University Galleries</A>
    <A HREF="http://www.cs.indiana.edu/cgi-bin/aliweb.pl?query=egyptian+art&searchtype=Substring&types=Any&titlefield=on&descriptionfield=on&keywordfield=on&showdescription=on&domain=&hits=">Search Results for 'egyptian art'</A>
    <A HREF="http://www.memphis.edu/egypt/artifact.html" >Egyptian Artifacts Exhibit</A>
  <A HREF="http://http.ecn.bgu.edu/users/mfjfg/nonprofit.html" >Non-Profit Galleries</A>
    <A HREF="http://http.ecn.bgu.edu/users/mfjfg/gallery.html">Commercial: Galleries</A>
    <A HREF="http://sgwww.epfl.ch/BERGER/">World Art Treasures</A>
    <A HREF="http://www.york.ac.uk/~jjrk1/porno.html">Porn and the Sexual Aesthetic of the Net</A>
    <A HREF="http://bcn.boulder.co.us/campuspress/feb31995/gallery020395.html" >On-line Gallery 2/3/95</A>
    <A HREF="http://nearnet.gnn.com/wic/art.toc.html">Arts & Entertainment</A>
    <A HREF="http://www.emf.net/louvre/paris/tour/louvre.inside.html">WebMuseum: Inside Le Louvre</A>
   <A HREF="http://www.micro.umn.edu/weisman/Exhibits/ExhibitsJPG.html">Frederick R. Weisman Art Museum</A>
    <A HREF="http://www.warhol.org/warhol/art.html">Art Samples from The Andy Warhol Museum</A>
   <A HREF="http://www.secapl.com/bonestell/Top.html">Chesley Bonestell Gallery</A>
    <A HREF="http://www.latrobe.edu.au/Glenn/Museum/ArtMuseumHome.html">La Trobe University Art Museum</A>
    <A HREF="http://sunsite.unc.edu/louvre/">WebMuseum: Bienvenue! (ticket office)</A>
    <A HREF="http://sunsite.unc.edu/louvre/about/language.html">WebMuseum: Why is the WebMuseum in English?</A>
    <A HREF="http://sunsite.unc.edu/louvre/about/about.html">WebMuseum: About the WebMuseum</A>
    <A HREF="http://sunsite.unc.edu/pub/multimedia/pictures/OTIS/">OTIS SITE</A>
    <A HREF="http://www.emf.net/louvre/paint/">WebMuseum: Famous Paintings exhibition</A>
    <A HREF="http://www.emf.net/louvre/paint/theme/impressionnisme.html">WebMuseum: Impressionism (1860-1900)</A>
   <A HREF="http://sgwww.epfl.ch/BERGER/first_program_N_english.html">World Art Treasures - First program</A>
   <A HREF="http://www.ecn.bgu.edu/users/mfjfg/galwalk.html">Gallery Walk</A>
    <A HREF="http://www.w3.org/hypertext/DataSources/bySubject/Literature/Overview.html">The World-Wide Web Virtual Library: Art</A>
    <A HREF="http://www.primenet.com/art-rom/museumweb/">"Museum Web" from Art-ROM</A>
    <A HREF="http://www.ncsa.uiuc.edu/SDG/Experimental/vatican.exhibit/Vatican.exhibit.html">Vatican Exhibit -- Rome Reborn</A>

<p>
<hr>
<p>
<ADDRESS>Last Modified 3/16/95</ADDRESS>                  
</body>
</html>
Mis_redirected¢DtypeEvalueôIhttp_code¢DtypeEvalueÈQdownload_complete¢DtypeEvalueõ