¦Ifinal_url¡DtypeLhttp_headers¢DtypeEvalueˆ¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueNContent-LengthAv¢DtypeEvalueD1575¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueMAccept-RangesAv¢DtypeEvalueEbytes¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueJKeep-AliveAv¢DtypeEvalueRtimeout=5, max=100¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueFServerAv¢DtypeEvalueUApache/2.4.7 (Ubuntu)¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueMLast-ModifiedAv¢DtypeEvalueXWed, 12 Mar 2014 01:55:13 GMT¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueJConnectionAv¢DtypeEvalueJKeep-Alive¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueDETagAv¢DtypeEvalueS"627-4f45f20a317d1"¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueDDateAv¢DtypeEvalueXThu, 31 Jan 2019 08:05:44 GMTKraw_content¢DtypeEvalueY'The Bouncer Toolkit Non-Commercial License .  

Copyright (c) 2005  SCONCE, ICS, University of California at Irvine.  
All rights reserved.

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
documentation in source and binary forms for lawful non-commercial
purposes and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
copyright notice appear in all copies and that both the copyright
notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation,
and that any documentation, advertising materials, and other materials
related to such distribution and use acknowledge that the software was
developed by the University of California, Irvine, Information and
Computer Science Department. The name of University of California,
Irvine may not be used to endorse or promote products derived from
this software without specific prior written permission.

THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, IRVINE MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS ABOUT
THE SUITABILITY OF THIS SOFTWARE FOR ANY PURPOSE.  THIS SOFTWARE IS
PROVIDED "AS IS" AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES,
INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE, AND
NON-INFRINGEMENT.

IN NO EVENT SHALL UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, IRVINE OR ANY OTHER
CONTRIBUTOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, TORT, OR OTHER FORM OF ACTION, ARISING
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH, THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.

All questions concerning this software should be directed to
jhyi@ics.uci.edu.


Mis_redirected¢DtypeEvalueôIhttp_code¢DtypeEvalueÈQdownload_complete¢DtypeEvalueõ