¦Ifinal_url¡DtypeLhttp_headers¢DtypeEvalue‡¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueNContent-LengthAv¢DtypeEvalueD6879¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueMAccept-RangesAv¢DtypeEvalueEbytes¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueFServerAv¢DtypeEvalueX4Apache/2.4.6 (CentOS) OpenSSL/1.0.2k-fips SVN/1.7.14¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueMLast-ModifiedAv¢DtypeEvalueXTue, 17 Jan 1995 08:26:53 GMT¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueDETagAv¢DtypeEvalueT"1adf-2cecd5334ad40"¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueDDateAv¢DtypeEvalueXWed, 06 Feb 2019 21:18:53 GMT¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueLContent-TypeAv¢DtypeEvalueXtext/html; charset=UTF-8Kraw_content¢DtypeEvalueYß<title>As We may Think - Section 8</title>
<b>Previous:</b> <a href="section7.html">Section 7</a>,
<b>Up:</b> <a href="index.html">As We May Think</a>
<h1>Section 8</h1>
<address>Vannevar Bush - <a href="index.html">As We May
Think</a> - The Atlantic Monthly, July 1945</address>
<hr>

<a href="http://www.hmc.edu/www/interpedia/">Wholly new forms of
encyclopedias will appear</a>, ready-made with a mesh of associative
trails running through them, ready to be dropped into the memex and
there amplified.  <a
href="http://www.law.cornell.edu/topical.html">The lawyer has at his
touch</a> the associated opinions and decisions of his whole
experience, and of the experience of friends and <a
href="http://www.law.cornell.edu/supct/supct.table.html">authorities</a>.  The
<a
href="http://www.law.cornell.edu/patent/patent.overview.html">patent
attorney</a> has on call <a
href="http://town.hall.org/patent/patent.html">the millions of issued
patents</a>, with familiar trails to every point of his client's
interest.  The physician, puzzled by its patient's reactions, strikes
the trail established in studying an earlier similar case, and runs
rapidly through analogous case histories, with side references to the
classics for the pertinent anatomy and <a
href="http://c.gp.cs.cmu.edu:5103/prog/webster?histology">histology</a>.  The
chemist, struggling with the synthesis of an organic compound, has all
the chemical literature before him in his laboratory, with trails
following the analogies of compounds, and side trails to their physical
and chemical behavior.

<p>

The historian, with a vast chronological account of a people,
parallels it with a skip trail which stops only at the salient items,
and can follow at any time contemporary trails which lead him all over
civilization at a particular epoch.  There is a new profession of
trail blazers, those who find delight in the task of establishing
useful trails through the enormous mass of the common record.  The
inheritance from the master becomes, not only his additions to the
world's record, but for his disciples the entire scaffolding by which
they were erected.

<p>

Thus science may implement the ways in which man produces, stores, and
consults the record of the race.  It might be striking to outline the
instrumentalities of the future more spectacularly, rather than to
stick closely to the methods and elements now known and undergoing
rapid development, as has been done here.  Technical difficulties of
all sorts have been ignored, certainly, but also ignored are means as
yet unknown which may come any day to accelerate technical progress as
violently as did the advent of the thermionic tube.  In order that the
picture may not be too commonplace, by reason of sticking to
present-day patterns, it may be well to mention one such possibility,
not to prophesy but merely to suggest, for prophecy based on extension
of the known has substance, while prophecy founded on the unknown is
only a doubly involved guess.

<p>

All our steps in creating or absorbing material of the record proceed
through one of the senses - the tactile when we touch keys, the oral
when we speak or listen, the visual when we read.  Is it not possible
that some day the path may be established more directly?

<p>

We know that when the eye sees, all the consequent information is
transmitted to the brain by means of electrical vibrations in the
channel of the optic nerve.  This is an exact analogy with the
electrical vibrations which occur in the cable of a television set:
they convey the picture from the photocells which see it to the radio
transmitter from which it is broadcast.  We know further that if we
can approach that cable with the proper instruments, we do not need to
touch it; we can pick up those vibrations by electrical induction and
thus discover and reproduce the scene which is being transmitted, just
as a telephone wire may be tapped for its message.

<p>

The impulse which flow in the arm nerves of a typist convey to her
fingers the translated information which reaches her eye or ear, in
order that the fingers may be caused to strike the proper keys.  Might
not these currents be intercepted, either in the original form in
which information is conveyed to the brain, or in the marvelously
metamorphosed form in which they then proceed to the hand?

<p>

By bone conduction we already introduce sounds into the nerve channels
of the deaf in order that they may hear.  Is it not possible that we
may learn to introduce them without the present cumbersomeness of
first transforming electrical vibrations to mechanical ones, which the
human mechanism promptly transforms back to the electrical form?  With
a couple of electrodes on the skull the encephalograph now produces
pen-and-ink traces which bear some relation to the electrical
phenomena going on in the brain itself.  True, the record is
unintelligible, except as it points out certain gross misfunctioning
of the cerebral mechanism; but who would now place bounds on where
such a thing may lead?

<p>

In the outside world, all forms of intelligence, whether of sound or
sight, have been reduced to the form of varying currents in an
electric circuit in order that they may be transmitted.  Inside the
human frame exactly the same sort of process occurs.  Must we always
transform to mechanical movements in order to proceed from one
electrical phenomenon to another?  It is a suggestive thought, but it
hardly warrants prediction without losing touch with reality and
immediateness.

<p>

Presumably man's spirit should be elevated if he can better review his
shady past and analyze more completely and objectively his present
problems.  He has built a civilization so complex that he needs to
mechanize his record more fully if he is to push his experiment to its
logical conclusion and not merely become bogged down part way there by
overtaxing his limited memory.  His excursion may be more enjoyable if
he can reacquire the privilege of forgetting the manifold things he
does not need to have immediately at hand, with some assurance that he
can find them again if they prove important.

<p>

The applications of science have built man a well-supplied house, and
are teaching him to live healthily therein.  They have enabled him to
throw masses of people against another with cruel weapons.  They may
yet allow him truly to encompass the great record and to grow in the
wisdom of race experience.  He may perish in conflict before he learns
to wield that record for his true good.  Yet, in the application of
science to the needs and desires of man, it would seem to be a
singularly unfortunate stage at which to terminate the process, or to
lose hope as to the outcome.

<hr>
<b>Previous:</b> <a href="section7.html">Section 7</a>,
<b>Up:</b> <a href="index.html">As We May Think</a>
<address>dduchier@csi.uottawa.ca</address>
Mis_redirected¢DtypeEvalueôIhttp_code¢DtypeEvalueÈQdownload_complete¢DtypeEvalueõ