¦Ifinal_url¡DtypeLhttp_headers¢DtypeEvalue‡¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueNContent-LengthAv¢DtypeEvalueD9309¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueMAccept-RangesAv¢DtypeEvalueEbytes¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueFServerAv¢DtypeEvalueX4Apache/2.4.6 (CentOS) OpenSSL/1.0.2k-fips SVN/1.7.14¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueMLast-ModifiedAv¢DtypeEvalueXTue, 17 Jan 1995 08:26:52 GMT¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueDETagAv¢DtypeEvalueT"245d-2cecd53256b00"¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueDDateAv¢DtypeEvalueXFri, 01 Feb 2019 14:47:21 GMT¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueLContent-TypeAv¢DtypeEvalueXtext/html; charset=UTF-8Kraw_content¢DtypeEvalueY$]<title>As We may Think - Section 2</title>
<b>Next:</b> <a href="section3.html">Section 3</a>,
<b>Previous:</b> <a href="section1.html">Section 1</a>,
<b>Up:</b> <a href="index.html">As We May Think</a>
<h1>Section 2</h1>
<address>Vannevar Bush - <a href="index.html">As We May
Think</a> - The Atlantic Monthly, July 1945</address>
<hr>

A record, if it is to be useful to science, must be continuously
extended, it must be stored, and above all it must be consulted.
Today we make the record conventionally by writing and photography,
followed by printing; but we also record on film, on wax disks, and on
magnetic wires.  Even if utterly new recording procedures do not
appear, these present ones are certainly in the process of
modification and extension.

<p>

Certainly progress in photography is not going to stop.  Faster
material and lenses, more automatic cameras, finer-grained sensitive
compounds to allow an extension of the minicamera idea, are all
imminent.  Let us project this trend ahead to a logical, if not
inevitable, outcome.  The camera hound of the future wears on his
forehead a lump a little larger than a walnut.  It takes pictures 3
millimeters square, later to be projected or enlarged, which after all
involves only a factor of 10 beyond present practice.  The lens is of
universal focus, down to any distance accommodated by the unaided eye,
simply because it is of short focal length.  There is a built-in
photocell on the walnut such as we now have on at least one camera,
which automatically adjusts exposure for a wide range of illumination.
There is film in the walnut for a hundred exposure, and the spring for
operating its shutter and shifting its film is wound once for all when
the film clip is inserted.  It produces its result in full color.  It
may well be stereoscopic, and record with spaced glass eyes, for
striking improvements in stereoscopic technique are just around the
corner.

<p>

The cord which trips its shutter may reach down a man's sleeve within
easy reach of his fingers.  A quick squeeze, and the picture is taken.
On a pair of ordinary glasses is a square of fine lines near the top
of one lens, where it is out of the way of ordinary vision.  When an
object appears in that square, it is lined up for its picture.  As the
scientist of the future moves about the laboratory or the field, every
time he looks at something worthy of the record, he trips the shutter
and in it goes, without even an audible click.  Is this all fantastic?
The only fantastic thing about it is the idea of making as many
pictures as would result from its use.

<p>

Will there be dry photography?  It is already here in two forms.  When
Brady made his Civil War pictures, the plate had to be wet at the time
of exposure.  Now it has to be wet during development instead.  In the
future perhaps it need not be wetted at all.  There have long been
films impregnated with <a
href="http://c.gp.cs.cmu.edu:5103/prog/webster?diazo">diazo</a> dyes
which form a picture without development, so that it is already there
as soon as the camera has been operated.  An exposure to ammonia gas
destroys the unexposed dye, and the picture can then be taken out into
the light and examined.  The process is now slow, but someone may
speed it up, and it has no grain difficulties such as now keep
photographic researchers busy.  Often it would be advantageous to be
able to snap the camera and to look at the picture immediately.

<p>

Another process now is use is also slow, and more or less clumsy.  For
fifty years impregnated papers have been used which turn dark at every
point where an electrical contact touches them, by reason of the
chemical change thus produced in an iodine compound included in the
paper.  They have been used to make records, for a pointer moving
across them can leave a trail behind.  If the electrical potential on
the pointer is varied as it moves, the line becomes light or dark in
accordance with the potential.

<p>

This scheme is now used in facsimile transmission.  The pointer draws
a set of closely spaced lines across the paper one after another.  As
it moves, its potential is varied in accordance with a varying current
received over wires from a distant station, where these variations are
produced by a photocell which is similarly scanning a picture.  At
every instant the darkness of the line being drawn is made equal to
the darkness of the point on the picture being observed by the
photocell.  Thus, when the whole picture has been covered, a replica
appears at the receiving end.

<p>

A scene itself can be just as well looked over line by line by the
photocell in this way as can a photograph of the scene.  This whole
apparatus constitutes a camera, with the added feature, which can be
dispensed with if desired, of making its picture at a distance.  It is
slow, and the picture is poor in detail.  Still, it does give another
process of dry photography, in which the picture is finished as soon
as it is taken.

<p>

It would be a brave man who could predict that such a process will
always remain clumsy, slow, and faulty in detail.  Television
equipment today transmits sixteen reasonably good images a second, and
it involves only two essential differences from the process described
above.  For one, the record is made by a moving beam of electrons
rather than a moving pointer, for the reason that an electron beam can
sweep across the picture very rapidly indeed.  The other difference
involves merely the use of a screen which glows momentarily when the
electrons hit, rather than a chemically treated paper or film which is
permanently altered.  This speed is necessary in television, for
motion pictures rather than stills are the object.

<p>

Use chemically treated film in place of the glowing screen, allow the
apparatus to transmit one picture rather than a succession, and a
rapid camera for dry photography results.  The treated film needs to
be far faster in action than present examples, but it probably could
be.  More serious is the objection that this scheme would involve
putting the film inside a vacuum chamber, for electron beams behave
normally only in such a rarefied environment.  This difficulty could
be avoided by allowing the electron beam to play on one side of a
partition, and by pressing the film against the other side, if this
partition were such as to allow the electrons to go through
perpendicular to its surface, and to prevent them from spreading out
sideways.  Such partitions, in crude form, could certainly be
constructed, and they will hardly hold up the general development.

<p>

Like dry photography, microphotography still has a long way to go.
The basic scheme of reducing the size of the record, and examining it
by projection rather than directly, has possibilities too great to be
ignored.  The combination of optical projection and photographic
reduction is already producing some results in microfilm for scholarly
purposes, and the potentialities are highly suggestive.  Today, with
microfilm, reductions by a linear factor of 20 can be employed and
still produce full clarity when the material is re-enlarged for
examination.  The limits are set by the graininess of the film, the
excellence of the optical system, and the efficiency of the light
sources employed.  All of these are rapidly improving.

<p>

Assume a linear ratio of 100 for future use.  Consider film of the
same thickness as paper, although thinner film will certainly be
usable.  Even under these conditions there would be a total factor of
10,000 between the bulk of the ordinary record on books, and its
microfilm replica.  The <a href="http://www.eb.com/"><i>Encyclopoedia
Britannica</i></a> could be reduced to the volume of a matchbox.  A
library of a million volumes could be compressed into one end of a
desk.  If the human race has produced since the invention of movable
type a total record, in the form of magazines, newspapers, books,
tracts, advertising blurbs, correspondence, having a volume
corresponding to a billion books, the whole affair, assembled and
compressed, could be lugged off in a moving van.  Mere compression, of
course, is not enough; one needs not only to make and store a record
but also to be able to consult it, and this aspect of the matter comes
later.  Even the modern great library is not generally consulted; it is
nibbled by a few.

<p>

Compression is important, however, when it comes to costs.  The
material for the microfilm <i>Britannica</i> would cost a nickel, and
it could be mailed anywhere for a cent.  What would it cost to print a
million copies?  To print a sheet of newspaper, in a large edition,
costs a small fraction of a cent.  The entire material of the
<i>Britannica</i> in reduced microfilm form would go on a sheet eight
and one-half by eleven inches.  Once it is available, with the
photographic reproduction methods of the future, duplicates in large
quantities could probably be turned out for a cent apiece beyond the
cost of materials.  The preparation of the original copy?  That
introduces the next aspect of the subject.

<hr>
<b>Next:</b> <a href="section3.html">Section 3</a>,
<b>Previous:</b> <a href="section1.html">Section 1</a>,
<b>Up:</b> <a href="index.html">As We May Think</a>
<address>dduchier@csi.uottawa.ca</address>
Mis_redirected¢DtypeEvalueôIhttp_code¢DtypeEvalueÈQdownload_complete¢DtypeEvalueõ