¦Ifinal_url¡DtypeLhttp_headers¢DtypeEvalue‡¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueNContent-LengthAv¢DtypeEvalueD7479¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueMAccept-RangesAv¢DtypeEvalueEbytes¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueFServerAv¢DtypeEvalueX4Apache/2.4.6 (CentOS) OpenSSL/1.0.2k-fips SVN/1.7.14¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueMLast-ModifiedAv¢DtypeEvalueXSat, 18 Mar 1995 05:43:40 GMT¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueDETagAv¢DtypeEvalueT"1d37-2d38209f9db00"¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueDDateAv¢DtypeEvalueXFri, 01 Feb 2019 21:07:56 GMT¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueLContent-TypeAv¢DtypeEvalueXtext/html; charset=UTF-8Kraw_content¢DtypeEvalueY7<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W30//DTD W3 HTML 2.0//EN">

<HTML>
<!-- base href="file://localhost/u3/ea/easu1570/ics.1c/econ3.html" -->
<HEAD>
<TITLE>ICS 1C HW 4 -- "PRICING ON THE INTERNET"</TITLE>
<!-- Due March 17, 1995

-->
</head>

<BODY>
<A NAME="TOP">
<H1>ICS HW 4: "PRICING ON THE INTERNET"</H1></A>
             
<hr>
     
<h2>About the author</h2>
Name: <b>Gabe Potyondy</b><br>
E-mail: <code>easu1570@ea.oac.uci.edu</code><br>
Major: Economics

<hr>

<h3>Introduction</h3>

    What is the purpose of prices? Prices allow people to see the
costs associated with their actions.  In the case of purchasing a good,
prices allow an individual to make a rational decision about the value of
the good.  When prices correctly reflect the costs associated with an
action, then the individual can weigh the costs and benefits of their
action and make a decision on whether to pursue the action. Presumably if
the benefits outweigh the costs, then the individual should purchase the
good.  In this case, the good that I am referring to is the resources that
are available on the <i>Internet</i> and <i>World Wide Web</i> (WWW). 
Although there are currently prices for using the Internet, the prices are
based on monthly subscription fees and one time connection fees.  These
costs are relatively low, and they do not distinguish between the value an
individual has for a prompt connection or for one that is delayed. There 
is no mechanism that
reflects the costs to other individuals brought on by a person making a
connection to a server.  This inevitably leads to congestion.  Gupta, 
Stahl, and Whinston in their paper <a href = 
"http://cism.bus.utexas.edu/ravi/pricing.ps.Z"><b><i>Managing the Internet 
as an Economic System</i></b></A> said, "The Internet is already 
experiencing traffic jams and, given the growth rate...this will become a 
severe problem if coordinating mechanisms are not designed and 
implemented." I will argue
that it is necessary to begin attaching prices to services in order to
relieve the congestion that is greatly increasing on the WWW.  The goal of
my paper is to provide a foundation for the understanding of how prices
may allow the information available on the Internet to be accessed and
retrieved more efficiently. <p>
 
<h3> Social Costs</h3>   

Congestion occurs on the Internet because of too much traffic by
individuals on the routers and lines of the Internet.  Since there is no
pricing mechanism except for the monthly subscription fee, there is no
incentive for individuals to reduce their traffic on the Internet. 
Because the Internet is basically a public good with no costs to
individuals associated with the amount of bandwidth they use, individuals
typically use more services then they otherwise may have. Over-usage
creates externalities on other individuals whose connection and
transmission may be delayed <A
HREF="http://edgar.stern.nyu.edu/network/top.html"><b><i>(Economides)</B></i></a>. 
This problem can be illustrated by the 'Tragedy of the Commons'.  During
the Middle Ages, villagers shared plots of land called the commons, where
everyone could take their sheep to graze.  Since there was no mechanism to
control the amount of grazing, every individual villager had an incentive
to take all of their sheep to graze.  This led to an overgrazing of the
land.  In the case of the Internet and WWW, the lack of a pricing
mechanism leads to a similar problem.  If I value the information from a
server more than Lynn, then I should be able to convey this to the server
and receive the information.  Prices would enable individuals to measure
their preferences for the information available. By attaching prices to
the connections of individuals to various servers, WWW users would have a
greater incentive to only connect and retrieve information that will be
have benefits that are greater then the costs. Prices would provide a
mechanism to ensure that the marginal users do not receive the service
before users who value it more. <p>

<h3> Pricing Mechanisms</h3>

I believe the most efficient pricing mechanism, with the lowest social
costs, will differentiate between peak usage periods and low usage
periods.  The majority of the costs associated with WWW usage is in the
fixed costs to provide the connections and the backbone.  Once the lines
and routers are in place, the marginal costs of an additional user are
negligible as long as there is available bandwidth.  For this reason it
would be unreasonable to charge people during non-peak hours, since the
marginal costs are so low.  MacKie-Mason and Varian, in their paper titled
<A
HREF="ftp://gopher.econ.lsa.umich.edu/pub/Papers/Pricing_the_Internet.ps.Z"><b><i>Pricing
the Internet</i></b></a> called these 'smart markets'.  Smart markets
would charge people during peak periods.  The people who would be willing
to pay the most, those who gained the highest utility from a connection,
would be the ones who would be allowed to utilize the information
available on the server. <p>
 There could also be a mechanism that allows people to give a priority to
their transmission, during peak periods.  Those who give a low priority to
their transmission would only be charged a minimal fee, but likewise would
not receive prompt connection.  The server would only connect when it
would not interfere with an other individuals' connection <A
HREF="ftp://gopher.econ.lsa.umich.edu/pub/Papers/Pricing_the_Internet.ps.Z"><b><i>(Mackie-Mason
and Varian)</b></i></a>. As mentioned earlier, the services during 
non-peak periods would be very cheap, if not free.<p>

<h3>Conclusion</h3>

Although the value of prices for the services on the Internet are
apparent, there is a problem.  Currently there is no accounting mechanism
to monitor and collect the fees that are related to usage.  This is
because the transmissions over the Internet are done in packets of data <A
HREF="http://far.mit.edu/Pubs/inet_econ/abstract.html"><b><i> 
(Bailey)</B></I></A>. 
It would not be efficient to charge individuals for their total log on
time to a server since most of the time they are not actually transmitting
data.  Therefore, a mechanism to monitor and then collect the fees would
need to be established.  Perhaps a system can emerge that charges users on
the amount of information that is carried within packets and at the time
of the transmission (peak vs. non-peak).<p>

I believe that at the rate of growth on the WWW and Internet, congestion
will become more of a problem in the near future.  A mechanism has to be
established that will aid in the efficient transfer of information of the
Internet lines.  I feel that by implementing a market driven price
structure, as mentioned above, that congestion would be greatly reduced
over the WWW.  The benefits of the information available on the WWW and
Internet are clear <a
HREF="http://www.ibm.com/Sponsor/g7live/30019.html"><b><i>(Gaunt)</b></I></a>.
However, the information that is available on the Internet and WWW is only
valuable if it is able to be obtained, and in an efficient manner, by the
individuals who value it the most.  I think prices will help in achieving
an efficiency in the retrieval of the resources available on the
Internet.<p>

<hr>

<h4>Other Related Articles</h4>

<LI><A 
HREF="ftp://parcftp.xerox.com/pub/net-research/policy.ps.Z"><B><I>Shenker</B></I></A>

<LI><A 
href="http://alfred.econ.lsa.umich.edu/EconInternet/Pricing.html><b><i>Usage based pricing</b></i></A>



</body>
Mis_redirected¢DtypeEvalueôIhttp_code¢DtypeEvalueÈQdownload_complete¢DtypeEvalueõ