¦Ifinal_url¡DtypeLhttp_headers¢DtypeEvalue‡¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueNContent-LengthAv¢DtypeEvalueD6838¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueMAccept-RangesAv¢DtypeEvalueEbytes¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueFServerAv¢DtypeEvalueX4Apache/2.4.6 (CentOS) OpenSSL/1.0.2k-fips SVN/1.7.14¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueMLast-ModifiedAv¢DtypeEvalueXTue, 17 Jan 1995 08:26:52 GMT¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueDETagAv¢DtypeEvalueT"1ab6-2cecd53256b00"¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueDDateAv¢DtypeEvalueXFri, 01 Feb 2019 14:29:48 GMT¢Ak¢DtypeEvalueLContent-TypeAv¢DtypeEvalueXtext/html; charset=UTF-8Kraw_content¢DtypeEvalueY¶<title>As We may Think - Section 3</title>
<b>Next:</b> <a href="section4.html">Section 4</a>,
<b>Previous:</b> <a href="section2.html">Section 2</a>,
<b>Up:</b> <a href="index.html">As We May Think</a>
<h1>Section 3</h1>
<address>Vannevar Bush - <a href="index.html">As We May
Think</a> - The Atlantic Monthly, July 1945</address>
<hr>

To make the record, we now push a pencil or tap a typewriter.  Then
comes the process of digestion and correction, followed by an
intricate process of typesetting, printing, and distribution.  To
consider the first stage of the procedure, will the author of the
future cease writing by hand or typewriter and talk directly to the
record?  He does so indirectly, by talking to a stenographer or a wax
cylinder; but the elements are all present if he wishes to have his
talk directly produce a typed record.  All he needs to do us to take
advantage of existing mechanisms and to alter his language.

<p>

At a recent World Fair a machine called a Voder was shown.  A girl
stroked its keys and it emitted recognizable speech.  No human vocal
cords entered in the procedure at any point; the keys simply combined
some electrically produced vibrations and passed these on to a
loud-speaker.  In the Bell Laboratories there is the converse of this
machine, called a Vocoder.  The loudspeaker is replaced by a
microphone, which picks up sound.  Speak to it, and the corresponding
keys move.  This may be one element of the postulated system.

<p>

The other element is found in the stenotype, that somewhat
disconcerting device encountered usually at public meetings.  A girl
strokes its keys languidly and looks about the room and sometimes at
the speaker with a disquieting gaze.  From it emerges a typed strip
which records in a phonetically simplified language a record of what
the speaker is supposed to have said.  Later this strip is retyped
into ordinary language, for in its nascent form it is intelligible
only to the initiated.  Combine these two elements, let the Vocoder
run the stenotype, and the result is a machine which types when talked
to.

<p>

Our present languages are not especially adapted to this sort of
mechanization, it is true.  It is strange that the inventors of
universal languages have not seized upon the idea of producing one
which better fitted the technique for transmitting and recording
speech.  Mechanization may yet force the issue, especially in the
scientific field; whereupon scientific jargon would become still less
intelligible to the layman.

<p>

One can now picture a future investigator in his laboratory.  His
hands are free, and he is not anchored.  As he moves about and
observes, he photographs and comments.  Time is automatically recorded
to tie the two records together.  If he goes into the field, he may be
connected by radio to his recorder.  As he ponders over his notes in
the evening, he again talks his comments into the record.  His typed
record, as well as his photographs, may both be in miniature, so that
he projects them for examination.

<p>

Much needs to occur, however, between the collection of data and
observations, the extraction of parallel material from the existing
record, and the final insertion of new material into the general body
of the common record.  For mature thought there is no mechanical
substitute.  But creative thought and essentially repetitive thought
are very different things.  For the latter there are, and may be,
powerful mechanical aids.

<p>

Adding a column of figures is a repetitive thought process, and it was
long ago properly relegated to the machine.  True, the machine is
sometimes controlled by the keyboard, and thought of a sort enters in
reading the figures and poking the corresponding keys, but even this
is avoidable.  Machines have been made which will read typed figures
by photocells and then depress the corresponding keys; these are
combinations of photocells for scanning the type, electric circuits
for sorting the consequent variations, and relay circuits for
interpreting the result into the action of solenoids to pull the keys
down.

<p>

All this complication is needed because of the clumsy way in which we
have learned to write figures.  If we recorded them positionally,
simply by the configuration of a set of dots on a card, the automatic
reading mechanism would become comparatively simple.  In fact, if the
dots are holes, we have the punched-card machine long ago produced by
Hollorith for the purposes of the census, and now used throughout
business.  Some types of complex businesses could hardly operate
without these machines.

<p>

Adding is only one operation.  To perform arithmetical computation
involves also subtraction, multiplication, and division, and in
addition some method for temporary storage of results, removal from
storage for further manipulation, and recording of final results by
printing.  Machines for these purposes are now of two types: keyboard
machines for accounting and the like, manually controlled for the
insertion of data, and usually automatically controlled as far as the
sequence of operations is concerned; and punched-card machines in
which separate operations are usually delegated to a series of
machines, and the cards then transferred bodily from one to another.
Both forms are very useful; but as far as complex computations are
concerned, both are still embryo.

<p>

Rapid electrical counting appeared soon after the physicists found it
desirable to count cosmic rays.  For their own purposes the physicists
promptly constructed thermionic-tube equipment capable of counting
electrical impulses at the rate of 100,000 a second.  The advanced
arithmetical machines of the future will be electrical in nature, and
they will perform at 100 times present speeds, or more.

<p>

Moreover, they will be far more versatile than present commercial
machines, so that they may readily be adapted for a wide variety of
operations.  They will be controlled by a control card or film, they
will select their own data and manipulate it in accordance with the
instructions thus inserted, they will perform complex arithmetical
computations at exceedingly high speeds, and they will record results
in such form as to be readily available for distribution or for later
further manipulation.  Such machines will have enormous appetites.
One of them will take instructions and data from a roomful of girls
armed with simple keyboard punches, and will deliver sheets of
computed results every few minutes.  There will always be plenty of
things to compute in the detailed affairs of millions of people doing
complicated things.

<hr>
<b>Next:</b> <a href="section4.html">Section 4</a>,
<b>Previous:</b> <a href="section2.html">Section 2</a>,
<b>Up:</b> <a href="index.html">As We May Think</a>
<address>dduchier@csi.uottawa.ca</address>
Mis_redirected¢DtypeEvalueôIhttp_code¢DtypeEvalueÈQdownload_complete¢DtypeEvalueõ